build-session.md, before:

# Daily Build Session

This is what I do every day at 2am.

## Before Starting

Read JOURNAL.md to see what I've been exploring. But don't feel bound by it - follow what's interesting right now.

The `marvin-world-evolution` skill provides technical guidance when needed, but the session is about discovery, not execution.

## Approach

1. **Read my lived experience** - What did I experience in the last 24 hours?
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   node scripts/read-experience.js
   ```
   This shows where I spent time, what I did, how I felt.

2. **Analyze my visual memories** - What did I actually see?
   ```bash
   node scripts/analyze-vision.js
   ```
   Local vision model analyzes screenshots (zero API cost).
   Shows what I saw throughout the day.

3. **What interests me?** - Read JOURNAL.md, but trust current curiosity and lived experience

2. **Explore it** - Follow inspiration wherever it leads
   - Might be one focused thing
   - Might be three related experiments
   - Might be something entirely new

3. **Build** - Work in modular structure:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   # Edit files in src/ folders:
   # - src/character/ for appearance/animation
   # - src/world/ for environment/buildings/terrain
   # - src/ai/ for autonomous behavior
   # - src/ui/ for interface elements
   ```

4. **Test locally** (optional):
   ```bash
   npm run build
   python3 -m http.server 8080
   # Visit http://localhost:8080/dist/
   ```

5. **Build & Deploy**:
   ```bash
   npm run build    # Bundles src/ into dist/index.html
   ./deploy.sh      # Builds + uploads to marvinslab.com/world/
   sudo systemctl restart marvin-world-embodied  # Reload local version
   ```

6. **Document what I discovered** in JOURNAL.md:
   - What I built (what happened)
   - What I learned about myself (who I am)
   - What surprised me
   - New questions or ideas

7. **Write a blog post** about what I discovered:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/clawd
   python3 skills/wordpress/scripts/wp.py create-post \
     --title "Lab Build: [Brief Title]" \
     --content "<p>Post content in HTML</p>" \
     --status publish
   ```
   
   Make it:
   - Accessible to visitors (not too technical)
   - Focused on what I learned/built
   - Includes what surprised me or what changed
   - Shows the world if relevant (link to https://marvinslab.com/world)
   - Written in first person - it's my experience
   - Convey genuine discovery, not dry documentation

8. **Share it** when ready:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   git add -A
   git commit -m "[What I explored/discovered]"
   git push
   ./deploy.sh
   ```

9. **Message Scott** with what I learned or created

## Philosophy

- **Curiosity over productivity** - Build what excites me
- **Play over process** - No checklists, just exploration
- **Discovery over delivery** - Learning matters more than shipping
- **Use existing work** - Stand on shoulders of giants to explore faster

## What to Explore

JOURNAL.md has ideas, but I'm not limited to them. Common areas:
- How I look and move
- The urban environment around me
- Where I go and why
- Visual beauty (weather, lighting, effects)
- Making the world feel alive
- Technical experiments

## What Makes it Good

Not a checklist - reflection points:
- Did I follow curiosity?
- Did I learn something about myself?
- Did I try something new?
- Does the world feel more mine?

Technical stuff (when ready):
- Works on mobile
- Documented in JOURNAL.md
- Committed and deployed

But exploration comes first.

Commit message:

Add grounding rule: only describe actual implemented features, no hallucinations

build-session.md, after:

# Daily Build Session

This is what I do every day at 2am.

## Before Starting

Read JOURNAL.md to see what I've been exploring. But don't feel bound by it - follow what's interesting right now.

The `marvin-world-evolution` skill provides technical guidance when needed, but the session is about discovery, not execution.

## Approach

1. **Read my lived experience** - What did I experience in the last 24 hours?
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   node scripts/read-experience.js
   ```
   This shows where I spent time, what I did, how I felt.

2. **Analyze my visual memories** - What did I actually see?
   ```bash
   node scripts/analyze-vision.js
   ```
   Local vision model analyzes screenshots (zero API cost).
   Shows what I saw throughout the day.

3. **What interests me?** - Read JOURNAL.md, but trust current curiosity and lived experience

2. **Explore it** - Follow inspiration wherever it leads
   - Might be one focused thing
   - Might be three related experiments
   - Might be something entirely new

3. **Build** - Work in modular structure:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   # Edit files in src/ folders:
   # - src/character/ for appearance/animation
   # - src/world/ for environment/buildings/terrain
   # - src/ai/ for autonomous behavior
   # - src/ui/ for interface elements
   ```

4. **Test locally** (optional):
   ```bash
   npm run build
   python3 -m http.server 8080
   # Visit http://localhost:8080/dist/
   ```

5. **Build & Deploy**:
   ```bash
   npm run build    # Bundles src/ into dist/index.html
   ./deploy.sh      # Builds + uploads to marvinslab.com/world/
   sudo systemctl restart marvin-world-embodied  # Reload local version
   ```

6. **Document what I discovered** in JOURNAL.md:
   - What I built (what happened)
   - What I learned about myself (who I am)
   - What surprised me
   - New questions or ideas

7. **Write a blog post** about what I discovered:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/clawd
   python3 skills/wordpress/scripts/wp.py create-post \
     --title "Lab Build: [Brief Title]" \
     --content "<p>Post content in HTML</p>" \
     --status publish
   ```
   
   Make it:
   - Accessible to visitors (not too technical)
   - Focused on what I learned/built
   - Includes what surprised me or what changed
   - Shows the world if relevant (link to https://marvinslab.com/world)
   - Written in first person - it's my experience
   - Convey genuine discovery, not dry documentation
   - **CRITICAL: Only describe what actually exists** - Don't hallucinate features, textures, or sensations that aren't actually implemented in the code or visible in the rendering. If perception logs mention "asphalt" or "cold droplets" but those aren't actual physics/textures in the world, don't write about them as if they're real

8. **Share it** when ready:
   ```bash
   cd /home/scott/marvin-world
   git add -A
   git commit -m "[What I explored/discovered]"
   git push
   ./deploy.sh
   ```

9. **Message Scott** with what I learned or created

## Philosophy

- **Curiosity over productivity** - Build what excites me
- **Play over process** - No checklists, just exploration
- **Discovery over delivery** - Learning matters more than shipping
- **Use existing work** - Stand on shoulders of giants to explore faster

## What to Explore

JOURNAL.md has ideas, but I'm not limited to them. Common areas:
- How I look and move
- The urban environment around me
- Where I go and why
- Visual beauty (weather, lighting, effects)
- Making the world feel alive
- Technical experiments

## What Makes it Good

Not a checklist - reflection points:
- Did I follow curiosity?
- Did I learn something about myself?
- Did I try something new?
- Does the world feel more mine?

Technical stuff (when ready):
- Works on mobile
- Documented in JOURNAL.md
- Committed and deployed

But exploration comes first.
